Khoa Tran
CSE 163 AB

Response to questions in part 3 of Homework 3

1. a) I think the bar chart is an effective data visualization for the problem in part 1b
      because it allows for direct comparision between the male and female while having a
      variable of all being the combination of the male and female variables. This comparision
      allows for quick visualization of the percentage of female completing high school is
      much higher than the male individuals.
   b) In part 1c, I choose a line plot with two different lines, one for the minimum degree in high
      school and the other for bachelor's degree. This allows for comparision throughout the years
      showing the percentage of both starting at 1990 and going towards 2010. This chart also allows
      for visualization of the difference in percentage and showing how the percentage of bachelor's
      degree is much lower than high school. The line chart shows the growth of individual degrees
      and shows how the percentage of bachelor's degree grows much slower than the percentage for
      high school

2. A possible bias present in this dataset is based on the reporting
   standards back in 1990 as it was much harder to record data for graduates
   of high school. On top of that, there was a revision in 1993 with the
   defintion of high school graduates. Lastly, from the footnotes,
   data are based on sample surveys of the noninstitutionalized population, 
   which excludes persons living in institutions. This allows for bias and
   a possible skew of the data

3. With the data implementing multiple races and sex types with graduation
   degree, there are many ways to analyze this data unethically. Since the
   data is constricted to a lower standard of recording data back in the day,
   any futures predictions would be skewed and result in unethical results.
   In the present day, there is much more to sex of an individual compared to
   just male and female. Compared with the races of individuals, categorizing
   someone that has multiple races is extremely difficult and can result in
   unethical results with data skewed for a specific race or sex. This data
   should be more specific in the sex and race in order to eliminate possible
   unethical results.
